[Music]
hey guys my name is Curtis Stone and I'm
an urban farmer I run a farm called
green city acres and we grow organic
salad greens microgreens cherry tomatoes
baby root vegetables and some herbs in
urban Lots that we don't own that we
sell to nearby grocery stores and
restaurants the total productive size of
our urban farm is a quarter acre spread
out amongst five urban Lots I'm standing
in one of them right here this is my
neighbor's house and right next door is
the home base of our farm this farm can
generate over a hundred thousand dollars
in gross revenue per year growing
year-round but predominantly that's
generated in eight months with two
people working full-time and then
part-time during the four winter months
today I'm gonna give you guys a tour of
the whole farm some of the tools and
techniques that we use to achieve what
we do we're gonna start right here at
the home base then I'm gonna show you
how and what we grow and then give you a
tour of the rest of the farm here we go
starting here at my home base this is
where I live and where I do most of my
work the house on the left of the two
greenhouses is mine I own it at least
have a mortgage on it and it is
solar-powered it's got an 11 and a half
kilowatt solar system there for the most
part we do I would say eighty to ninety
percent of the work on the farm is done
here at the home base we actually spend
most of our time in post harvest and
I'll talk a little bit about more of
that as we go through this but I live
here I've got a home office there pass
the solar greenhouse that is based on a
passive solar design it's not entirely
passive but it is our nursery and we do
micro greens in there year-round as well
as all of our nursery starts and that
big greenhouse in front of it is a hot
house it's a double poly greenhouse that
we can do tomatoes and it really early
it's got a six thousand kilowatt heater
in it which is powered by the solar on
my house and we can do really early
stuff in the ground
or push things really late in there so
really the name of the game here is
using every square foot we can for
production the front yard of my house is
1,100 square feet so those are about the
majority of them are 40 foot beds and
there's a couple short ones in there
and each of these beds will be rotated
at least four times a season with quick
growing crops that is mostly what we
specialize in on our farm another way we
can really push our season far into
winter and starting really early in the
spring is with these modular greenhouses
called caterpillar tunnels they can be
put up and taken down really quickly
about one guy can put up a 50 foot
tunnel in about an hour maybe with a bit
of help to put the plastic on but these
greenhouses really allow us to push our
season we even put one in the front yard
of our house this spring mind you it was
only there for six weeks it was there to
serve the purpose to get the crop
started and established and then it came
down so these greenhouses have become a
critical part of the season extension
infrastructure on our farm and in fact
we put them on our other plots as well
this plot here and here both had to
caterpillar tunnels on them just this
spring and we plan on putting them out
in the fall to go into the winter again
this season so this is one of the most
important areas on our farm this is our
post harvest area this is where we wash
and spin and dry everything and over
here is where we pack orders toby is
here just packing some greens for
grocery stores I do our label printing
from this computer which prints off on
this little printer here and then this
printer is for printing invoices so
that's how we're completing all of our
orders once they've been washed we reuse
wax cardboard boxes that we get from the
back of the grocery stores that we sell
to we pick those up when we drop stuff
off so we just reuse them so back over
here the walk-in coolers are probably
one of the most critical pieces of
infrastructure on our farm these are two
restaurant
style walk-in coolers they're four feet
deep six feet wide and six feet tall and
both of these have been modified with a
cool bot system which is essentially
modified air conditioner and it's an
inexpensive way to set up a compressor
for produce I will say that they are
generally better for smaller coolers and
if you're gonna have a big cooler you
might need to have a couple air
conditioners with a couple of cool BOTS
but this infrastructure over here is
critical this is a washing table we wash
root veggies on here and I've done
videos on all this stuff you just use
the search on my channel you can find
out all these individual things so this
is a bubbler
that's for bubbling or washing greens it
shakes the dirt off with water it works
with a Jacuzzi pump these are our salad
spinners they are modified washing
machines to wash and spin our salad
greens or to spin our salad green juice
and say and this is our greens drying
screen again I've mentioned all the
stuff in my book but I've done many
videos on this before now this is our
main tools wall so these are tools that
are used constantly multiple days a week
almost all year the quick cut greens
harvester has a revolutionary tool that
we used for harvesting most of our salad
greens except lettuce that is a tilter
which is a shallow tiller essentially
that was a janitor that's our main
planting tool this is a flame leader
which we use a lot for bed prep here's
all of the seed that I use on a weekly
basis this is for the Jiang cedar these
are the rollers for the Jiang cedar they
have different types of rollers to drop
different types of seed and that's all
the seed that I'm using in a constant
basis like red Russian kale arugula
spinach radishes and turnips and things
like that this is what I call my
secondary tools wall it's just around
the corner and these are all the hand
tools that we use on the farm so I've
also done a video on these tools
specifically you can check that one out
in the video card above
as transplanter that is a game-changing
tool for us on the farm and this is the
BCS this is a BCS walk-behind tractor
two-wheel tractor we have a roto tiller
on the front but I also use a rotary
plow for it and this is the machine that
can have the implement called a power
Harrow which is a way of doing shallow
till for your bed cultivation which
reduces weed pressure and keeps your
soil more intact
so this is the hybrid passive solar
greenhouse lot of production here in the
other 10 months of the year and nothing
in it during the two months that are the
hottest months so I've got a shade cloth
on here lots of circulation fans in this
greenhouse we have an exhaust fan here
and an air intake on the other side of
the greenhouse the greenhouse is also
heated during the coldest times with a
6000 watt heater here all this stuff is
connected to the solar of my house this
greenhouse has what's called the climate
battery and so this duct pulls hot air
from the top of the greenhouse in the
center and it pumps it down through this
fan underground and so three feet
beneath my feet we have big ole piping
running every six inches underneath the
floor here about three feet under and we
pump the hot air underground and the
floor will radiate heat throughout the
winter and it is basically what they why
they call it a climate battery because
it holds the climate and creates some
passive heat in this greenhouse so yes I
do heat it when it needs to be heated
but even on its own it can stay above
freezing even in the coldest times of
the winter during the winter we have to
run a dehumidifier and that's what that
is we also bring one of our walk-in
coolers in here in the winter and we do
all of our post harvest and packing in
this greenhouse during the winter as
well and even a little bit beyond the
winter will actually do our post harvest
stuff in here up until late April just
because it's nice comfortable and warm
and we've got lots of space in here to
do that this is the shade house this is
the summer nursery on the farm so in the
summer time I don't want to have
microgreens and nursery stuff in the
greenhouse or nursery because it gets
too hot and I have to go and hand water
every two hours whereas with this setup
it's automatically irrigated with
misting irrigation that comes on every
six hours and it's more than enough to
handle all the watering of these plants
and microgreens consistently and it also
saves me a lot of stress and time that's
a 60% shade cloth above and I just
attached it to my neighbor's fence this
is a temporary structure and it's just
up for the two months of summer this is
one of our bikes and trailers we used to
do everything by bike and trailer but
now we mostly use a truck this is a
dodge Promaster City we still use the
bikes to go back and forth between the
plots for little things but this is our
main delivery vehicle so the vast
majority of the product that we sell now
goes to grocery stores in Kelowna so
these are five different chains in
Kelowna nesters market choices market
and quality greens and you can see by
the products there we're fairly
specialized we've got some cherry
tomatoes there are some carrots and then
various bags of salad greens that's
essentially what our farm produces now
we're about down to ten different
products that we grow I started with 90
different vegetables where I've grown 90
in the course of my career and I've just
kept doubling down on the things that
provide the most value or the the
greatest return in the least amount of
time and that has been salad greens
microgreens
and cherry tomatoes during the main
season but for the most part its salad
greens and microgreens that we're doing
almost year-round the name of the game
with our production on our farm is high
rotation planting though this is a term
that I coined and I wrote about in my
book the urban farmer and what this
means is that all the plots of land that
we farm all the ones you saw in this
video each bed is rotated on average
four times per season and it's primarily
growing quick growing crop so I'll
explain some of the characteristics of
the crops that we grow in a minute
but each of these beds are rotated four
times a season on average a 50 foot bed
in our farm will generate sixteen
hundred dollars of revenue to the course
of a season in order to do that these
crops have to have some certain
characteristics so economically a 50
foot bed can generate sixteen hundred
dollars of revenue we have the
equivalent of sixty three fifty foot
beds on our farm sixty three times
sixteen hundred is a hundred thousand
dollars
eight hundred so that's a benchmark on
what we can achieve on our farm it's not
a guarantee but it's a benchmark when
I'm looking at the season and looking
what we can do I can use that as sort of
a frame of reference as to what I think
we can achieve I've been doing this for
eight years now and all the numbers that
I write about in my book are based on
data that I've recorded every year that
I've been farming and I've arrived at
these benchmarks by just tracking my
information over the years so the really
important thing here is the types of
crops we grow so there's five
characteristics of the crops that we try
to focus on on our farm and these
characteristics I find are the most
important and the most telling on
whether a crop is going to be profitable
for us the first thing is popularity the
crop has got to be in demand people have
to know what it is the second thing is
days to maturity we're only growing
crops that have 60 days or less to
maturity so there's no corn there's no
cabbage there's no potatoes
there's no onions there's no garlic
there's no winter squash I might grow
that stuff in my private garden but I'm
not growing that on the farm the third
thing is high yield I'm looking for
crops that will deliver at least half a
pound per linear foot in bed so I want
it on a 50 foot bed I want to get at
least 25 pounds per harvest of a crop so
that could be greens that could be
radishes when I crop them out you name
it the fourth thing is high price I'm
generally targeting crops that have a
high high price point I'm targeting
around $4 a pound or more some crops I
grow aren't quite that much but the vast
majority of them are at least that and
and much more so we're not growing low
value crops like corn and winter squash
again you
about higher value crops that's how
we're making a good living on a small
land base and the fifth thing is long
seasonality I'm not growing crops that
have a short season so for example
melons you might plant them and fit in
in May but you don't harvest them until
August salad greens all the types of
crops you see behind me maybe basal
would be one exception I can have them
for almost eight months of the year that
means I have a very long season to
market in and that's what makes these
crops profitable so those five
characteristics are what I'm targeting
when I'm picking crops to grow on our
farm and how I'm going to make these
tiny Lots as profitable as they are now
to get this kind of production out of
our beds we amend with high amounts of
organic matter primarily compost and
manure we start each season by applying
two inches of compost to each bed then
each subsequent shell planting after
that gets an application of organic
compost a turkey manure which is an 8 to
4 NPK rating we sometimes apply another
2 inches of compost during the peak
summer if we feel the beds could use it
altogether we only spend $2,000 a year
on our fertility we also make our own
compost but isn't nearly enough to meet
our intensive needs it's also worth
mentioning that most the crops we grow
are actually very low feeders so just to
give you guys an idea of some of the
production we get from the crops that we
grow here's some examples of for common
crops to grow red Russian kale is a
solid green we do pretty much grow
year-round on the first cut you get
around 40 40 pounds second cut 15 third
cut 10 something like that so you're
getting you know 65 pounds on a bed
spinach is a really good one 50 pounds
on the first cut 30 on the second 20 or
so on the third still get around 100
pounds on one bed arugula now that's a
really profitable unforce and it grows
so fast it grows fast in the spring but
in the summer it grows in like 21 days
from seed to harvest so you get around
40 pounds on the first cut then you got
15 on the second sometimes we don't even
wait for the second cut in the summer we
just pull out immediately and then plant
something else you know a 21 day crop so
we can sell that anywhere up to six to
ten dollars a pound
same for all these greens actually now
Sol ANOVA that's our biggest one this
one's done as a transplant it's not
planted in the same way that the others
are it's not direct seeded this we have
we actually have to harvest it by hand
we can't use the quick cut greens
harvester on it and huge yields on this
bed I mean on average at 100 pounds per
bed you know 50 pounds on the first cut
35 on the second 15 on the third we can
sell that it around the same price point
sometimes we get 80 pounds on the first
cut of selling of if we let it get big
enough the cool thing about the crop is
that the leaves stay small the big as
the head gets bigger the leaves don't
get big so it's really consistent as far
as put it in a salad mix so you can see
even with all those just those four
together if you would have had a for
crop bed in succession with all four of
those crops your your total would have
been massive you know you would have
been around $3,000 of crop in one bed so
besides the farm home base that you've
seen I don't own any of the land that we
farm in we lease it out from homeowners
in exchange for vegetables so it
actually costs us no cash technically we
will take over a person's backyard and
we generally want the whole backyard or
as much as we can get at least a
thousand square feet and we grow
vegetables in it for a growing season
and for that growing season we will give
the landowners a basket of veggies each
week that we deliver to them so that
basket of veggies is worth around twenty
to thirty dollars depending on the
season and we take all the labor of
maintaining a lawn
off them you know a lawn is essentially
a cost center it doesn't really produce
anything for you unless you play soccer
a lot or something but we also take care
of the water bill so any of the water
use that exceeds their normal household
usage we compensate them thanks for
watching guys if you want to learn more
about this stuff and how I do it make
sure to subscribe to my channel if you
really want to take you to the next
level you can come to one of my life
events I do workshops throughout the
u.s. New Zealand on my farm and abroad
or you can sign up for my online course
which is a 10-week self-study fully
comprehensive small farming multimedia
encyclopedia I will have all the links
below in the show notes as well as at
the end of this video regarding that
information
alright guys talk to you later
[Music]